---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# Functional Structure

Windows OS is structured in a hierarchical format, organizing files and directories allowing efficient navigation and management of system resources. Below is an overview of the main file system folders in Windows:

## <mark style="color:blue;">Common Directories</mark>

The following are common directories in a Windows filesystem that play crucial roles in system configuration, file storage, operational functions, and overall performance:

* **`C:`:** The root directory of the system drive, typically where Windows is installed, containing all files and folders essential for the operating system's operation.
* **`C:\Windows`:** Contains the operating system files necessary for Windows to run. This directory includes system executables, drivers, and configurations.
  * **`C:\Windows\System32`:** Contains system files, libraries, and executable files essential for the core functionalities of the Windows operating system.
    * **`C:\Windows\System32\config`:** Stores the registry files that are essential for the system's configuration and settings.
    * **`C:\Windows\System32\etc\hosts`:** Common file to save hostnames and IPs in Windows.
  * **`C:\Windows\Temp`:** Stores temporary files created by the system and applications, which can be cleared to free up disk space.
  * **`C:\Windows\Logs`:** Contains log files generated by the operating system and applications, which can be useful for troubleshooting and monitoring system events.
* **`C:\Program Files`:** The default directory for installing most applications on a 64-bit Windows system. It houses application binaries and files necessary for software to function properly.
  * **`C:\Program Files\Common Files`:** Shared files used by multiple programs.
* **`C:\Program Files (x86)`:** The default directory for 32-bit applications installed on a 64-bit Windows system, allowing compatibility with legacy software.
  * **`C:\Program Files (x86)\Common Files`:** Similar to the 64-bit version, contains shared files for 32-bit applications.
* **`C:\Users`:** Contains user profiles for all accounts on the computer, where personal settings, files, and application data are stored.
  * **`C:\Users\$username\Documents`:** The default folder for user-generated documents, such as text files, spreadsheets, and presentations.
  * **`C:\Users\$username\Downloads`:** The default location for files downloaded from the internet, making it easy for users to access their downloaded content.
  * **`C:\Users\$username\Desktop`:** Contains files and shortcuts that are visible on the user's desktop, providing quick access to frequently used items.
  * **`C:\Users\$username\AppData`:** A hidden directory that contains application settings, configuration files, and data specific to installed programs, divided into three subfolders: Local, LocalLow, and Roaming.
    * **`C:\Users\$username\AppData\Local`:** Stores data specific to applications installed for the user.
    * **`C:\Users\$username\AppData\Roaming`:** Contains settings and data that can be synced across different devices for the user.
* **`C:\ProgramData`:** A hidden directory that stores application data shared among all users on the system, including configuration files and settings.
  * **`C:\ProgramData\Microsoft`:** Contains various Microsoft application data.
* **`C:\Recycle Bin`:** A special folder where deleted files are temporarily stored, allowing users to restore items before they are permanently removed from the system.
* **`C:\Drivers`:** The folder where Windows drivers are stored, allowing the operating system to communicate with hardware devices like printers, graphics cards, and network adapters.
  * **`C:\Drivers\Backup`:** A subfolder where driver backups may be stored (if applicable).
* **`C:\Windows\Logs`:** Contains log files generated by the operating system and applications.
  * **`C:\Windows\Logs\CBS`:** Contains logs related to the Component-Based Servicing.
