---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# Enumeration

Involves systematically gathering information about a target's network, systems, and applications, focusing on extracting detailed data such as user accounts, network shares, open ports, and system settings, which can be leveraged to gain further access.

## <mark style="color:blue;">Internal enumeration</mark>

After completing successfully the exploitation face and gaining access to a shell in the target machine, we can do an enumeration of resources such as:&#x20;

* Operative System.
* Kernel.
* Services running.
* Available ports.
* Sudo permissions.
* Normal and hidden files and directories.
* Environment variables.
* Network interfaces and configuration.
* Applications and programming languages installed.

## <mark style="color:blue;">Technics</mark>

Here we can find some specific techniques for various scenarios where we could do an XSS scripting attack:

### <mark style="color:orange;">Using Feroxbuster and ZAP</mark>

We can redirect our scan results from fuzzers to specialized tools such as ZAP to handle petitions and analysis on endpoints found.

* Set and run a scan with the desired specifications using _feroxbuster_

{% code overflow="wrap" lineNumbers="true" %}
```bash
feroxbuster -u $url -n -t $threads -L $limit -w $wordlist -o $file #Example
```
{% endcode %}

***

* We can filter the desired entries from the scan's file, format them, and redirect the URL obtained to an advanced processor, in this case, ZAP. To do so, we can automatize this process with a little script as the following one:

{% code title="ferox-zap.sh" overflow="wrap" lineNumbers="true" %}
```bash
#!/bin/bash

# We filter by response code, then format only to get the endpoints' URL, and finally do a loop to send a petition to each one catching them with the proxy
egrep "^200" "$1" | tr -s " " | cut -d " " -f6 | while read -r line; do
  echo "Sending request to $line"
  curl "$line" --proxy http://localhost:8080 > /dev/null
done
```
{% endcode %}

***

* To use this we have to run the script indicating the scan file generated by _feroxbuste_r and it will send the requests to be captured by the ZAP proxy_._

{% code overflow="wrap" lineNumbers="true" %}
```bash
./ferox-zap.sh $filename
```
{% endcode %}
